**Welcome to our first Fantasy Football league – Struxure Bowl**

**Registration:**

We will be using Yahoo Fantasy Football. You will need to register a Yahoo account if you don't have one.
They also have a mobile app available that you can use to manage your team.

**Format:**

10 Teams, $20 due for each team manager. Winner takes 60%, runner up takes 30% and 3rd place takes 10%
Week 1 to week 14 are regular season, week 15-16 are playoffs.
4 teams with best standing (W/L) in regular season advanced to playoffs.
Payment is due directly to Yahoo and winners will receive payment directly from Yahoo.

**(!)This is a PPR (point per reception) league(!)**

**Draft:**

TBD, I’m thinking **Thursday Augest 31st @ happy hours, or Tuesday Sept 5th @ 5pm**. We can also find a window earlier, but defiantly not later since season starts on Thursday Sept 7th. Draft is intense, not sure if bar is a good place:)

It will be a snake draft, initial order will be generated by random.org with original list sorted by last name
You will have 1 minute per round to make draft decision, or Yahoo will pick highest player from your list if you pre-configured one, or Yahoo will pick one from it's own list if you didn't configure one. The entire process will take no more than 160 minutes for 10*16 players we will be picking.

**Roster Position**

Roster positions are 1xQB 2xRB 3xWR 1xTE 1xFlex(RB/WR/TE), 1xK, 1xDEF, 6xBN

Each active position earns points for your team.
Bench players doesn't earn points for the team

**Head-to-Head match:**

Each week two teams will be matched head to head. Team with higher points wins the match.
Match schedule is randomly generated by Yahoo

**Waiver Wire & Free Agent:**

When a player is dropped by a team, he will be placed on waiver wire for 2 days. If more than two managers made claim against the same player, the manager with higher waiver priority will receive the play and immidately downgrade his waiver priority to the last position.
When a team's game is started, all free players from that team will be placed on waiver wire until comming Wednesday morning. When a player is off the waiver without any claims, he becames a free agent, and will be FCFS with no penalty on manager's waiver priority.

**Trade:**

Trades are commissioner review only. All trades prove to be mutually beneficial to the involved parties will be allowed. Pre-arranged trades with intensions to pool good players into one's team will be blocked.

**Score:**

*Offense*

Action | Score
--- | ---
Passing Yards|	25 yards per point	
Passing Touchdowns|	4	
Interceptions|	-1	
Rushing Yards|	10 yards per point	
Rushing Touchdowns|	6	
**Receptions**|	1 
Receiving Yards|	10 yards per point	
Receiving Touchdowns|	6	
Return Touchdowns|	6	
2-Point Conversions|	2	
Fumbles Lost|	-2	
Offensive Fumble Return TD|	6	

*Kickers*

Action | Score
--- | ---
Field Goals 0-19 Yards|	3	
Field Goals 20-29 Yards|	3	
Field Goals 30-39 Yards|	3	
Field Goals 40-49 Yards|	4	
Field Goals 50+ Yards|	5	
Point After Attempt Made|	1	

*Defense/Special Teams*

Action | Score
--- | ---
Sack|	1	
Interception|	2	
Fumble Recovery|	2	
Touchdown|	6	
Safety|	2	
Block Kick|	2	
Kickoff and Punt Return Touchdowns|	6	
Points Allowed 0 points|	10	
Points Allowed 1-6 points|	7	
Points Allowed 7-13 points|	4	
Points Allowed 14-20 points|	1	
Points Allowed 21-27 points|	0	
Points Allowed 28-34 points|	-1	
Points Allowed 35+ points|	-4	
Extra Point Returned|	2

**Tips**

You can easily find some draft recommendations online for a head start

http://www.espn.com/fantasy/football/story/_/page/17RanksPreseason200PPR/2017-fantasy-football-ppr-rankings-top-200

https://www.fantasypros.com/nfl/rankings/ppr-cheatsheets.php

https://www.sbnation.com/fantasy/2017/6/6/15742574/2017-ota-fantasy-football-rankings-running-backs-ppr-leveon-bell-david-johnson-otas-june

http://www.nfl.com/fantasyfootball/story/0ap3000000817671/article/2017-fantasy-football-ppr-mock-draft-wrs-rule

http://www.cbssports.com/fantasy/football/news/2017-fantasy-football-draft-prep-picking-at-no-7-overall-in-ppr-leagues/

Following are the player's properties might be mentioned by draft guide you come across

Property | Description
--- | ---
Predictions| How much points this player is perdeicted to earn this entire season
Upside| How much potentials this player has, typically more for a younger/rookie players
Standard Deviation| How stable this player earns points game to game
Average Draft Position| This is a reference to where a player normally gets drafted in other leagues
Targets| This is important in PPR, since for anyone receives, one touch means one point


